Really come back in this we do.
Let's look at a lot of discussion a lot of things about interfaces.
So we'll talk about what is the interface how do you define an interface how do you implement that interface
and ultimately look at a few tricky things about interfaces while also learning about whether you can
extend an interface and whether you can extend multiple interfaces.
I mean can a classic in multiple interfaces as well.
So those are the different things that you discuss as part of this particular section.
Let's start with the basic question.
What is really an interface and interface basically defines a contract.
What are the responsibilities of a specific class.
So if I'm saying a class implement a specific interface then all the better to show defined in the interface
are implemented by that particular class.
So basically an interface defines what are the responsibilities for a specific class.
So it's like saying hey you can do anything but you should add it to the signatures.
That's basically an interface.
So it can kind of represent the common actions between multiple classes so you have a set of classes
which implement an interface.
You can definitely be sure that all that which are defined in the interface are implemented in those
classes.
I mean there are of few clauses to that.
I mean after classes and things like that.
But in general all the concrete classes should implement everything that is defined in the interface.
Java uses the interfaces beautifully.
You have a map interface a collection interface and the methods which are inside the map interface.
You can be sure that any concrete map implementation for example or hash map what is in the map would
definitely be added by the hash map.
So let's take a quick look at the map and the collection interface.
Before we move into creating an interface on our own.
Let's open up the jar that your map to look at what are the.
In this particular case.
So if you look at the map interface it defines a number of methods.
So if you look at the interface it contains a number of methods which are defined in here.
So you are seeing that there are a number of methods which are there some of the methods you don't have
the body of the metro to they just contain the signature.
So this is just the signature of that particular method.
There are also method implementations for some of the methods.
So what are the changes that are made in Java one point eight is that you can give a default implementation
of a method in an interface.
This wouldn't have been possible in Java 7.
But since giallo one point eight The interfaces also can contain a default implementation for a specific
method.
Well here we are providing implementation for a specific method and as you can see here this is from
1.8.
So map interface defines the contract which should be added by any implementation of the map.
So hash map or any other implementation of the map should airdate to this specific contract.
How do you really define an interface the way you define an interface is very simple.
We are making it more complex than necessary in here.
So it's public abstract interface flyable.
And we have a public abstract wired flight.
Actually this public abstract is not really necessary any method which is defined in any interface by
default as public and abstract and the abstract here also is not really necessary.
So typically you'd see the signatures like public interface playable white flight.
So you don't need to define the method in here.
If you want to you can get a default implementation starting from Java 8 but it's not necessary to do
a job implementation.
So that's how you define an interface.
So now you're defining an interface call flyable.
So this is flat.
So I am able to fly.
So that's basically the action.
Anything that implements floorball has to implement.
So if you look at it right now like how do you implement an interface.
It's basically But implementing flyable.
So airplane implement flyable and fly and implement flyable and fly the best way to look at interfaces
is the common actions that are supported between two classes.
So if you look at board an airplane they have no real relationship between them at all.
What they do one thing in common flight so interfaces are common actions.
Jindalee interface represents common actions that two things can both form.
So if you look at the map interface it defines the common actions that you can do on all the maps with
its hash map or link hash map or any of such things.
The list interface defines what you can do on an aerialist or a vector or anything that implements the
list interface.
So those are the actions that you can perform.
Similarly here I know that on an airplane I can call the fly on a board I can perform the option fly
as well so interface here represents the common actions that you can perform on a set of classes.
Let's look at a few tricky things about interface so we know that variables in an interface are always
public static final.
So by default even if I don't say anything here in value when it's public static final.
So that's number one.
So no other modifier is allowed.
So you cannot call a variable private.
So if you do something like this I wait in use equal to then it's a compiler interface that are by default
public and abstract so anything that you describe here is public and abstract and before Java 8 a concrete
method cannot be created an interface.
But now you can actually if you look at the default word method 5 and I'm able to define it.
So this would have given me a compilation error in Giaours 7 but allowed from Java 8 words.
Can you extend an interface.
Yes you can.
This sub interface one is now extending X extending example into this one.
So it's adding a new method.
I meant that so do a class which implements of interface one should not implement what is defined in
so being the first one and what the word is defined in.
Example.
Interface what to what to omit that are declared by both these interfaces.
Those should be defined in all the concrete implementations of the sub interface.
One class a small trivia here is the fact that an interface can or text in the class.
You can only extend that interface so it would not be possible to extend us in a classic in multiple
interfaces.
OK.
One of the things which we discussed already is the fact that a class cannot extend multiple classes
but you can not extend multiple interfaces but actually implement them on different interfaces.
This question these are confusing question because it is going to extend multiple interfaces.
Actually the answer is can it.
The answer should be no because you cannot extend multiple interfaces.
You have to implement multiple interfaces so a class can implement multiple interfaces and you can have
a sampling class implementing multiple interfaces and then you have to implement all the methods which
are defined in these two interfaces.
So that's basically for example one of the classes in JDK that implement multiple interfaces is hash
map.
You can see it here hash map implement map cleanable anti realisable.
What methods are serializable.
Ha this is a marker interface which does not really define amateur.
It just isn't marketing to freeze the cloner will also is a market interface.
So the only real live interface which is in the past are implementing a map but you can see the fact
that you can implement.
I mean you can implement multiple interfaces.
So those are few of the important things that you would need to know about interface.
Discuss about interfaces.
More when we talk about advanced object oriented programming.
But for now let's take a break and I'll see you in the next two ETEO.